---
jupyter:
  jupytext:
    text_representation:
      extension: .md
      format_name: markdown
      format_version: '1.3'
      jupytext_version: 1.11.5
  kernelspec:
    display_name: MATLAB
    language: matlab
    name: imatlab
---

# Homework 10

## Discrete Fourier Transform and the Fast-Fourier Transform

### Discrete Fourier Transform

<ol>
    <li>Try Exercise 1 and Exercise 2 in section <a href="https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/swansea-ebooks/reader.action?docID=3384197&ppg=421">10.8</a> of Karris{cite}`karris` by hand.</li>

<li>The eight-point	Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) of the	function:
   
$$
     x[n] = \left\{
         \begin{array}{r@{\quad}l}
             n & 0 \le n \le 4\\
             0 & \mathrm{otherwise}
         \end{array}
     \right.
$$

is given by

$$
      X[m] = \left[ 10,-5.41-j4.83, 2 + j2, -2.59-j0.83, 2, -2.59+j0.83, 2-j2, -5.41+j4.83\right].
$$
    
<ol>
<li>Sketch the time sequence $x[n]$.</li>

<li>Use the DFT formula 

$$
           X[m] = \sum_{n=0}^{7}\,x[n]\exp{\left(-j\left(\frac{2\pi m}{8}\right)n\right)} = \sum_{n=0}^{7}\,x[n]W_8^{nm}
$$

to confirm that the value of $X[4]=2$.</li>

<li>Use the	DFT	formula	given to confirm the DC value of the signal.</li>
    
<li>Confirm that the correct value of $x[1]$ is returned by the inverse DFT

$$
        x[n] = \frac{1}{8}\sum_{m=0}^{7}\,X[m]\exp{\left(j\left(\frac{2\pi n}{8}\right)m\right)} = \frac{1}{8}\sum_{m=0}^{7}\,X[m]W_{8}^{-nm}.
$$</li></ol>

<li>If	we	wanted	to	compute	a 1024 point DFT from a	sampled-data signal, how much	speed-up could we expect to achieve	using the FFT rather than the standard formula for the	DFT?</li>

<li>Given that direct convolution of two	digital	sequences takes order $n^2$ floating point operations, is taking the FFT of the two 1024 point signals, multiplying them and taking	the	inverse	FFT	more efficient than direct convolution?	If not, for how	many samples,	would using	the	FFT	be more efficient than direct convolution?</li></ol>


## Solutions

1. See section <a href="https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/swansea-ebooks/reader.action?docID=3384197&ppg=421">10.9</a> of Karris{cite}`karris`

2. *Hints*:
   1. Sketch a point or stem plot with x-axis $n$ and y-axis $x[n]$.
    
   2. Compute $X[4]$ noting that the exponential term for $m = 4$ is $-1$.
    
   3. Compute $X[0]$ but note that the exponential term is $1$ for all $n$ so this is simply the sum of $x[n]$.

3. FFT takes 9.8% of the time or is 102	times faster than DFT.

4. Convolution of two 1024 real sequences takes 1,048,576 real	operations.	FFT	of each	signal takes 10,240 complex	operations,	multiplication of two signals in complex domain	takes 1,024	complex	multiplications, inverse FFT is	10,240 more. So	 FFT method	is around 31,000 complex operations. Even if taking	into account difference	between complex	and	real arithmetic, FFT is	order 10 times faster (and needs less memory) than convolution.

## Reference

See [Bibliograhy](/zbib).
